docs: document osbuild and selinux integration (#834)
osbuild/osbuild: selinux/README.md

# SELiunx and osbuild

SELinux labels for files are store as extended attributes under the
`security.selinux` prefix.

## File system tree labelling
All stages, including the `org.osbuild.rpm` stage are run inside a
container which will indicate to all tools, including rpm scriptles
that SELinux is disabled.

> Labels are manually applied to the file system tree via a specialsed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Labels are manually applied to the file system tree via a specialised
```

`org.osbuild.selinux` stage. This stage should therefore be at the
very end of the pipeline that is building the tree so that all files
are properly labelled.

## Container peculiarities and policy differences

> The SELinux is not namespaced which means there is only one global

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELinux is not namespaced which means there is only one global
```

policy inside the Linux kernel. Since the kernel is shared by all
containers, the policy that is loaded in the kernel applies to all
containers as well.

Labels are verified against the active policy in the kernel when
writing (`setxattr`) but also when reading them (`getxattr`) as
long as the selinux is activated for the kernel (i.e. on the
host).

To read or write labels that are not included in the currently
active policy, the `CAP_MAC_ADMIN` capability(7) is needed. If

> a process does now have this policy the following will happen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a process does not have this policy the following will happen
```

when trying to write or read the label:

When trying to write a label that is unknown to the currently

> active policy, the kernel will reject that it and the call to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
active policy, the kernel will reject it and the call to
```

`setxattr` will fail with `EINVAL` resulting in "Invalid argument"
errors from the corresponding tooling.

When trying to read a label that is unknown to the currently

> active policy, the kernel will "pretend" the file is not labeld and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
active policy, the kernel will "pretend" the file is not labelled and
```

This one was caught by the GH Action spell checker but I'm claiming it too.

return`system_u:object_r:unlabeled_t:s0` as label. Thus a file with

> a unknown label (unknown to the host kernel) us indistinguishable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an unknown label (unknown to the host kernel) is indistinguishable
```

> to an unlabelled file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from an unlabelled file.
```

In RHEL and Fedora's SELinux policy, only very few programs can
gain or retain the`CAP_MAC_ADMIN` capability, even if the current

> user is `unconfined` or `sysadm`. Normal tools like `cp`, `ls` or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
user is `unconfined` or `sysadm`. Normal tools like `cp`, `ls`,
```

> `stat`, `tar` do *not* have this capability meaning that inspecting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`stat`, or `tar` do *not* have this capability, meaning that inspecting
```

the labels for files and folders will result in `unlabeled_t` for
unknown (to the host) labels.

### Custom OSBuild SElinux Policy

On RHEL and Fedora, the SELinux policy has a few contexts that
allow `CAP_MAC_ADMIN`, most notably `install_t` and `setfiles_mac`.
The latter is a policy for the `setfiles` binary, which is used
by the`org.osbuild.selinux` stage to label files. But to be able
to transition into `setfiles_mac`, the calling program must have a
special transition rule allowing this. Therefore in osbuild a

> custom policy with specialized lables for osbuild executables such

Reviewer: ```suggestion
custom policy with specialised labels for osbuild executables such
```

You spelled specialised with an `s` (UK spelling) above and `z` (US spelling) here.  I'd go with `s` for consistency.

> as stages, runners and the main binary: `osbuild_t`. Then a domain

Reviewer: This sentence is missing a verb.
The basic structure of the sentence is (simplified):

> Therefore in osbuild a custom policy with specialised labels for executables such as stages.
